README.md, before:

# Extensive Pore Modelling (xpm)

xpm is a software for predicting flow properties of the multi-scale pore space.

xpm uses [pnextract](https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/pnextract) to acquire a network model from an image.

## Publications

- [Poster](https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.25902862.v1) presented at Interpore 2024, Qingdao, China

## Build instructions

xpm uses [vcpkg](https://vcpkg.io/) for dependency management.

<!--
> [!NOTE]
> The decimal separator in your system (see region or locale settings) must be a period (.) and not a comma (,). This issue is typical of Cyrillic-based Windows or Ubuntu operating systems.
-->

### Windows

Commands are issued in an *x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022*, which is part of the Microsoft Visual Studio toolset.

> [Step 2](#W2) assumes `C:\` as the starting directory and may take at least an hour to complete.<br/>
> [Step 3](#W3) can be performed from any location.

1. Download and install [Microsoft MPI](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=57467)

2. <a id="W2"></a> Clone vcpkg and install xpm dependencies 
```cmd
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg
cd vcpkg
git clone -b xpm https://github.com/dp-69/vcpkg-ports ports-xpm
bootstrap-vcpkg.bat
vcpkg.exe install vtk[qt] qtcharts hypre boost-intrusive boost-iostreams boost-graph fmt argh --overlay-ports=ports-xpm --clean-after-build
```

3. <a id="W3"></a> Clone and build xpm
```cmd
git clone https://github.com/dp-69/xpm
cd xpm
cmake --preset=win-rel
cmake --build --preset=win-rel
```

4. Execute xpm
```cmd
cd build/Release/bin
xpm.exe
```

### Ubuntu

Commands are issued from a terminal.

> [Step 2](#U2) assumes home directory `~` as the starting directory and may take at least an hour to complete.<br/>
> [Step 3](#U3) can be performed from any location.

1. Install required Ubuntu packages
```cmd
sudo apt install     \
  build-essential    \
  git                \
  tar curl zip unzip \
  pkg-config         \
  meson              \
  libxi-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libglu1-mesa-dev mesa-common-dev libxrandr-dev libxxf86vm-dev \
  gfortran           \
  autoconf autoconf-archive \
  libtool            \
  '^libxcb.*-dev' libx11-xcb-dev libglu1-mesa-dev libxrender-dev libxi-dev libxkbcommon-dev libxkbcommon-x11-dev \
  cmake              \
  linux-libc-dev     \
  python3-jinja2     \
  openmpi-bin        
```

2. <a id="U2"></a> Clone vcpkg and install xpm dependencies 
```cmd
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg
cd vcpkg
git clone -b xpm https://github.com/dp-69/vcpkg-ports ports-xpm
./bootstrap-vcpkg.sh
./vcpkg install vtk[qt] qtcharts hypre boost-intrusive boost-iostreams boost-graph fmt argh --overlay-ports=ports-xpm --clean-after-build
```

3. <a id="U3"></a> Clone and build xpm
```cmd
git clone https://github.com/dp-69/xpm
cd xpm
cmake --preset=lin-rel
cmake --build --preset=lin-rel
```

4. Execute xpm
```cmd
cd build/Release/bin
./xpm
```

## Copyright

The xpm project's research results are a copyright of the respective members and associates.

[Dmytro Petrovskyy](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dmytro-petrovskyy/) <sup>1</sup><br/>
Julien Maes <sup>2</sup><br/>
Hannah Menke <sup>2</sup><br/>
Kamaljit Singh <sup>2</sup><br/>

<sup>1</sup> Independent Consultant, Ivano-Frankivsk, Ukraine<br/>
<sup>2</sup> Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh, UK

*Tom Bultreys (Ghent University, Belgium) is thanked for their advisory in multi-scale pore-network modelling.*

## License

xpm is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

xpm is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with xpm. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Commit message:

README notices | bison and flex Ubuntu packages

README.md, after:

# Extensive Pore Modelling (xpm)

xpm is a software for predicting flow properties of the multi-scale pore space.

xpm uses [pnextract](https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/pnextract) to acquire a network model from an image.

## Publications

- [Poster](https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.25902862.v1) presented at Interpore 2024, Qingdao, China

## Build instructions

xpm uses [vcpkg](https://vcpkg.io/) for dependency management.

<!--
> [!NOTE]
> The decimal separator in your system (see region or locale settings) must be a period (.) and not a comma (,). This issue is typical of Cyrillic-based Windows or Ubuntu operating systems.
-->

### Windows

Commands are issued in an *x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022*, which is part of the Microsoft Visual Studio toolset.

1. Download and install [Microsoft MPI](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=57467)

2. <a id="W2"></a> Clone vcpkg and install xpm dependencies

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Assumes `C:\` as the starting directory. May take at least an hour to complete.

```cmd
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg
cd vcpkg
git clone -b xpm https://github.com/dp-69/vcpkg-ports ports-xpm
bootstrap-vcpkg.bat
vcpkg.exe install vtk[qt] qtcharts hypre boost-intrusive boost-iostreams boost-graph fmt argh --overlay-ports=ports-xpm --clean-after-build
```

3. <a id="W3"></a> Clone and build xpm

> [!NOTE]
> Can be performed from any location.<br/>

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Modify the path `"C:/vcpkg/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake"` in the `xpm/CMakePresets.json` file accordingly if [Step 2](#W2) is not performed in `C:\`.

```cmd
git clone https://github.com/dp-69/xpm
cd xpm
cmake --preset=win-rel
cmake --build --preset=win-rel
```

4. Execute xpm
```cmd
cd build/Release/bin
xpm.exe
```

### Ubuntu

Commands are issued from a terminal.

1. Install required Ubuntu packages
```cmd
sudo apt install     \
  build-essential    \
  git                \
  tar curl zip unzip \
  pkg-config         \
  meson              \
  libxi-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libglu1-mesa-dev mesa-common-dev libxrandr-dev libxxf86vm-dev \
  gfortran           \
  autoconf autoconf-archive \
  libtool            \
  '^libxcb.*-dev' libx11-xcb-dev libglu1-mesa-dev libxrender-dev libxi-dev libxkbcommon-dev libxkbcommon-x11-dev \
  cmake              \
  linux-libc-dev     \
  python3-jinja2     \
  bison flex         \
  openmpi-bin        
```

2. <a id="U2"></a> Clone vcpkg and install xpm dependencies

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Assumes home directory `~` as the starting directory. May take at least an hour to complete.

```cmd
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg
cd vcpkg
git clone -b xpm https://github.com/dp-69/vcpkg-ports ports-xpm
./bootstrap-vcpkg.sh
./vcpkg install vtk[qt] qtcharts hypre boost-intrusive boost-iostreams boost-graph fmt argh --overlay-ports=ports-xpm --clean-after-build
```

3. <a id="U3"></a> Clone and build xpm

> [!NOTE]
> Can be performed from any location.<br/>

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Modify the value `"~/vcpkg/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake"` in the `xpm/CMakePresets.json` file accordingly if [Step 2](#U2) is not performed in home directory `~`.

```cmd
git clone https://github.com/dp-69/xpm
cd xpm
cmake --preset=lin-rel
cmake --build --preset=lin-rel
```

4. Execute xpm
```cmd
cd build/Release/bin
./xpm
```

## Copyright

The xpm project's research results are a copyright of the respective members and associates.

[Dmytro Petrovskyy](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dmytro-petrovskyy/) <sup>1</sup><br/>
Julien Maes <sup>2</sup><br/>
Hannah Menke <sup>2</sup><br/>
Kamaljit Singh <sup>2</sup><br/>

<sup>1</sup> Independent Consultant, Ivano-Frankivsk, Ukraine<br/>
<sup>2</sup> Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh, UK

*Tom Bultreys (Ghent University, Belgium) is thanked for their advisory in multi-scale pore-network modelling.*

## License

xpm is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

xpm is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with xpm. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
